# MuJoCo WASM <!-- omit from toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit from toc -->

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Compile and install MuJoCo WASM binary](#compile-and-install-mujoco-wasm-binary)
  - [Key Steps in the Build Process:](#key-steps-in-the-build-process)
- [Development environment](#development-environment)
  
## Introduction

This document contains information about building MuJoCo into WebAssembly so it can be loaded and executed in the browser.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding with the build process, ensure you have the [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/index.html) compiler installed and the EMSDK environment variable set.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/emscripten-core/emsdk.git
cd emsdk/
git pull
./emsdk install latest
./emsdk activate latest
source ./emsdk_env.sh
```

Append a command at the end of your `.bash_profile` to source EMSDK automatically.

```bash
source "/path-ro-emsdk//emsdk_env.sh"
```

## Compile and install MuJoCo WASM binary

In the root folder, execute the following commands:

```bash
emcmake cmake -Bbuild -H.
cmake --build build
cmake --install build
```

These commands will performs the following actions:

- Downloads all required packages.
- Applies necessary patches to the source code.
- Compiles MuJoCo web into WebAssembly including all libraries.
- Install the binary into the /public/wasm/ folder.

### Key Steps in the Build Process:

**Dependency Management**

MuJoCo relies on the [CCD](https://github.com/danfis/libccd) (Collision Detection) library for its physics computations. By default, MuJoCo fetches and builds the CCD library as part of its CMake build process.

**Patching the CCD Library**

To eliminate external dependencies on the LM (Linear Math) library—which is already included in Emscripten—the CCD library must be patched. This involves modifying the CCD source code to remove references to the external LM library.

**Precompiling the CCD Library**

To streamline the build process and avoid fetching and building CCD from source each time, the CCD library is compiled separately. MuJoCo is then configured to utilize this precompiled version instead of fetching it during the build.

**Configuring MuJoCo to Use the Precompiled CCD Library**

The build scripts are adjusted to prevent MuJoCo from fetching the CCD library automatically. Instead, MuJoCo is instructed to link against the precompiled CCD library, ensuring compatibility and reducing build times.

## Development environment

We use VSCode to develop the C++ wrapper around the MuJoCo core functionality.

**VSCode**

Install the following extensions in VSCode.

- [C/C++ Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cpptools-extension-pack), which provides the base tools to work with C++ files, including CMake.

- [Clangd](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=llvm-vs-code-extensions.vscode-clangd) extension and the clangd language server.

  Clangd works better than Microsoft Intellisense in highlighting code, and it is expecially good at refactoring. It uses the file `compile_commands.json` which is generated by CMake in the build folder when we compile MuJoCo.


